# Project Development Weekly Progress Report

**Team Name:** Disaster Response Platform (DaRP)

**Date:** 17.10.2023

## Progress Summary

The group is content of the kick start. The project plan (which will be reviewed as planned in the plan but will also be subject to continuous scrutiny) has been prepared with contributions by the sub teams and will be a very useful map for our following efforts.

Another important development of the week is about the actual work of subteams. Backend, frontend and mobile teams made a quick (and [meticulous](https://www.google.com/search?q=meticulous+meaning) as well) start in developing the code with backbone/design issues.

The team may seem to be slow in self training issues which is not a risk for the time being. This issue should rather be seen as a result of a much optimistic approach of the previous team meeting. This optimism was not beyond limits, so sometimes it is better to be too optimistic.

### Objectives for the following week

With only 2 weeks left until the Customer Milestone 1 deliverables are due, our focus for the upcoming week will be:

- **Preparation**: We want to have a few key functions up and running so we can test them out and make sure they're working as expected.
- **Platform Foundation**: Our aim is to have the initial parts of our platform ready by the end of next week.
- **Backend Progress**: A core backend function will be completed. This will act as a sample to guide further developments.
- **Frontend & Mobile Sync**: As soon as the backend function is finalized, our frontend and mobile teams will integrate and adapt it for user interaction.

In summary, the next week is about setting up the foundational elements of our platform and ensuring we're on track for upcoming milestone.

## What was planned for the week? How did it go?

| Description                                                                                                                                                               | Issue                                                                                                                                                                                           | Assignee                           | Due        | Estimated Duration | Actual Duration | Artifacts                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ---------- | ------------------ | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| CI/CD backbone/draft prepared                                                                                                                                             | [#284](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/284)                                                                                                                                 | Merve (assisted by: Beg√ºm, Mehmet) | 17.10.2023 | 3 h                | 3 h             | [#322](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/pull/322)                        |
| Self training of technologies for back-end                                                                                                                                | [#286](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/286)                                                                                                                                 | Back-end team                      | 17.10.2023 | 3 h                | 3 h             | Comments are under the issue                                                         |
| Self training of technologies for front-end                                                                                                                               | [#287](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/287)                                                                                                                                 | Front-end team                     | 17.10.2023 | 3 h                | 6 h             | .                                                                                    |
| Self training of technologies for mobile                                                                                                                                  | [#288](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/288)                                                                                                                                 | Mobile team                        | 17.10.2023 | 3 h                | 3 h             | [#288](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/288)                      |
| Empty Android Studio project created                                                                                                                                      | [#289](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/289)                                                                                                                                 | Mobile team                        | 17.10.2023 | 1 h                | 1 h             | [#317](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/pull/317)                        |
| API convention - data structure, error handling, response codes                                                                                                           | [#290](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/290)                                                                                                                                 | Back-end team                      | 17.10.2023 | 3 h                | 3 h             | [API-Conventions](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/wiki/API-conventions) |
| Navigation Structure for Mobile Application created                                                                                                                       | [#291](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/291)                                                                                                                                 | Egecan                             | 17.10.2023 | 4 h                | 5 h             | [#350](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/pull/350)                        |
| Initial Database - installation and design setup                                                                                                                          | [#292](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/292)                                                                                                                                 | Merve, Aziza                       | 17.10.2023 | 3 h                | 2 h             |
| Create Network Utility Class for mobile                                                                                                                                   | [#293](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/293)                                                                                                                                 | Hasan                              | 17.10.2023 | 5 h                | 5 h             | [#320](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/pull/320)                        |
| _Utility mailbox for the project will be arranged with boun.edu.tr extension. With SMTP configuration tested._ Canceled as the infrastructure is not provided by the BOUN | [#295](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/295)                                                                                                                                 | Mehmet K.                          | 17.10.2023 | 3 h                | \*              | CANCELLED                                                                            |
| Fill Relevant Pages for Mobile Application                                                                                                                                | [#296](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/296)                                                                                                                                 | Mobile team                        | 17.10.2023 | 3 h                | 3 h             | [#351](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/pull/351)                        |
| Project plan initial version launched                                                                                                                                     | [#297](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/297) [#298](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/298) [#299](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/299) | All team                           | 12.10.2023 | 2 h                | 4 h             | [Project Plan](https://github.com/orgs/bounswe/projects/12)                          |
| Navigation tree - page structure for web                                                                                                                                  | [#300](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/300)                                                                                                                                 | Front-end team                     | 17.10.2023 | 3 h                | 3 h             | [#311](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/pull/311)                        |

## Completed tasks that were not planned for the week

| Description                                                                               | Issue                                                            | Assignee      | Due         | Artifacts                                                                                         |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Defining branch name rules                                                                | [#310](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/310)  | Beg√ºm         | 15.10.2023  | [Branch-Name-Rules](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/wiki/Branch-Name-Rules)          |
| Creating Backend Folder Structure                                                         | [#313](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/313)  | Beg√ºm         | 17.10.2023  | [PR](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/pull/314)                                       |
| Backend Team Meeting #1                                                                   | [#312](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/312)  | Back-end Team | 13.10.2023  | [BE-1 Meeting Notes](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/wiki/Backend-Team-Meeting-%231) |
| Add Branch Name Rules into SideBar                                                        | [#318](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/318)  | Egecan        | 17.10.2023  | [Sidebar](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/wiki)                                      |
| ¬†Exploring HackMD as a collaborative Markdown platform for efficient lab report creation. | ¬†[#333](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/333) | ¬†Burak        | ¬†17.10.2023 | [Lab Report 3 Workspace](https://hackmd.io/h6jfSLYuSDS2kP0kpe2mpA)                                |
| ¬†Adding a label for Research issues.                                                      | ¬†-                                                               | ¬†Burak        | ¬†17.10.2023 | [Labels](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/labels)                                     |

## Planned vs. Actual

- We faced challenges with EC2 and AWS configurations, causing a delay in preparing the Wiki document for the CI/CD operation. We are working on resolving these issues.
- Teams had a quicker start on coding than presumed.
- A new team member was added to the Frontend team, leading to some adjustments in the project plan.
- We were informed that we will not be able to arrange a utility mailbox with a boun.edu.tr extension for our project.
- Simultaneous development led to some conflicts in the main branch on the merging stage.

## Your plans for the next week

| Description                                                  | Issue                                                           | Assignee                           | Due        | Estimated Duration |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ---------- | ------------------ |
| Frontend - Simple map page initialization                    | [#309](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/309) | ≈ûahin                              | 19.10.2023 | 4h                 |
| Frontend - Simple main page and navigation component         | [#323](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/323) | Merve                              | 19.10.2023 | 5h                 |
| Frontend - Milestone 1 Mid Review                            | [#331](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/331) | Front-end Team                     | 20.10.2023 | 1h                 |
| Backend - Resource CRUD endpoint implementation              | [#325](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/325) | Burak, Buse                        | 25.10.2023 | 5h                 |
| Backend - Need CRUD endpoint implementation                  | [#326](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/326) | Begum, Aziza                       | 25.10.2023 | 5h                 |
| Backend - Authentication related endpoint implementation     | [#327](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/327) | Buse, Aziza                        | 25.10.2023 | 5h                 |
| Frontend - Authentication pages' design and implementation   | [#328](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/328) | Can Bora, Merve, Sahin             | 23.10.2023 | 5h                 |
| Frontend - profile page design and implementation            | [#330](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/330) | Can Bora                           | 25.10.2023 | 5h                 |
| Backend - Profile edit-create-delete endpoint implementation | [#324](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/324) | Mehmet, Burak                      | 26.10.2023 | 5h                 |
| Frontend - Adding Emergency button on navbar                 | [#321](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/321) | ≈ûahin                              | 18.10.2023 | 20 min             |
| RAM preparation                                              | [#332](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/332) | Beg√ºm, Egecan, ≈ûahin               | 21.10.2023 | 2 h                |
| Backend Team Meeting #2                                      | [#329](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/329) | Backend Team                       | 18.10.2023 | 40 min             |
| CI/CD backbone/draft prepared                                | [#284](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/284) | Merve (assisted by: Beg√ºm, Mehmet) | 21.10.2023 | 2 h                |
| Research for Annotation standards                            | [#334](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/334) | Mehmet                             | 24.10.2023 | 1h                 |
| Mobile - Profile page UI                                     | [#335](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/335) | Cahid                              | 24.10.2023 | 2h                 |
| Mobile - Adding Login and Sign in Functions                  | [#336](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/336) | Hasan                              | 24.10.2023 | 4h                 |
| Mobile - Simple main page and navigation bar                 | [#337](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/337) | Egecan                             | 24.10.2023 | 4h                 |
| Mobile - Mobile - Add Need Form                              | [#338](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/338) | Halil                              | 24.10.2023 | 3h                 |
| Mobile - Creating User Table in Local Database               | [#340](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/340) | Cahid                              | 24.10.2023 | 2h                 |
| Mobile - Creating Need Table in Local Database               | [#341](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/341) | Egecan                             | 24.10.2023 | 2h                 |
| Mobile - Creating Action Table in Local Database             | [#342](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/342) | Halil                              | 24.10.2023 | 2h                 |
| Mobile - Creating Emergency Table in Local Database          | [#343](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/342) | Egecan                             | 24.10.2023 | 2h                 |
| Mobile - Creating Event Table in Local Database              | [#344](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/344) | Halil                              | 24.10.2023 | 2h                 |
| Mobile - Creating Resource Table in Local Database           | [#345](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/345) | Hasan                              | 24.10.2023 | 2h                 |
| Mobile - Team Meeting #1                                     | [#346](https://github.com/bounswe/bounswe2023group2/issues/346) | Mobile-Team                        | 24.10.2023 | 40min              |

## Risks

- We may not have enough knowledge to develop using some technologies, as our own training for those technologies and development happen at the same time.
- We might encounter problems with hashing and sessions in Authentication
- Working together on github as a large and novice group, we might have some merge conflicts
- Possible earthquake in Istanbul before we complete the project. (that is why we work hard)

## Participants

- Egecan Serbester
- Beg√ºm Arslan
- Merve G√ºrb√ºz
- Cahid Enes Kele≈ü
- Aziza Mankenova
- Buse Tolunay
- Mehmet Kuzulugil
- Ramazan Burak Sarƒ±ta≈ü
- Halil ƒ∞brahim G√ºrb√ºz
- Can Bora Uƒüur
- √ñmer ≈ûahin Albayram
- Hasan Bing√∂lbali
